welcome to Black Belt site.com I'm
master Scout karate combat techniques
now I use the term karate but I just
generalize in this particular instance
I'm going to be covering techniques from
a few different styles when it comes to
techniques there are a few that are
really good for street combat or what we
call street self-defense you know they
have to cover they have to qualify in
two different areas really they have to
they have to be quick and they really
have to cause damage right away many
times in a self-defense situation you're
not going to get multiple chances to
strike they usually happen fast and
they're over with quickly so the first
technique that definitely qualifies on
the quick side is the jab with the jab
it can be thrown quickly especially the
nose causes people's eyes to water when
when you strike the nose and sets up
many different other techniques so today
I'm going to go over the jab how to
throw in a self-defense situation as
well as the roundhouse kick and the
front snap kick to the groin so let's
get started with those first we're going
to start with the jab the key to a quick
jab from here is your power hand so if
you're left handed which I am you're
going to want to have your left hand
back in your right hand in front and in
a self-defense self-defense situation
you want to try to calm a person here
one of the reasons you want your hands
up front is you just want to open in
calming but also you are set up very
well for a quick jab to the face from
here don't want any trouble and a quick
jab comes from there versus having your
hands down here or getting them up in a
tight fist when you start to clench your
best it causes the other person usually
escalate into violence as well so we
definitely want to get the surprise but
we don't want any trouble but we
certainly don't want to be a kicking or
punching bag either so once again you're
just going to put your hands up here and
then quickly throw the jab out here as
soon as you throw that jab both hands
are up your excuse me both hands are up
and out tight fists and now you're ready
to defend yourself so once again here
here and you're ready from there if of
course you're right-handed you want to
step back here same position tight fist
slow-motion snap out and ready to go
that's the jab to the face what I want
to cover next is the roundhouse kick
this is a very devastating technique and
you want to throw that right at your
opponent's knee right here so when you
throw this kick here you're going to
pivot quickly and snap down tip it
quickly and snap down from the other
side it looks like this snap here once
again snap here very important when you
throw this strike that you are striking
right at your opponent's be very
important you want to cause depending on
which foot they need a buckle in or
buckle to the outside either one is very
effective and last from here when you're
getting in this stance here I'm not
wanting any trouble here the front snap
kick to the groin when you throw this
kick you certainly want to come straight
up and in if you have on normal tennis
shoes you want to be toes down it
doesn't matter which foot you throw this
kick with but it should be your back leg
versus a front leg so when you're
practicing this over and over and over
you want to be here
and you want to throw that kick right in
here throw it in here from the other
side it would look just like this now
from here with the front snap kick if
you have especially for females any type
of pointed dress new males if you have
any type of steel toe in a shoe or boot
then you want to go toes up and it's
very important whenever you strike
whether it's the jab or whether it's a
roundhouse or the front snap kick to the
groin that you go through your target so
with my opponents here I don't just want
to snap here and stop I want to follow
through here I don't want to kick here
if I hit the groin I want to bring it
all the way up so when I follow through
the target I get a lot more power I'm
going to go through a couple examples
for you here here quickly here relaxed
snap and ready
once again here right there here relax
jab tight power brown mouse or from here
jab power front snap kick to the groin
you can also do the reverse I'm not
wanting any trouble here kicking the
knee out landing and throwing a solid
punch here remember throw multiple
techniques don't stop it just one you're
here to defend yourself you didn't want
the trouble but you are certainly in a
position now where you can't get away
you've tried talking your way out now
it's time you defend yourself so
remember the jab the front snap kick to
the groin in the roundhouse and you're
going to want to practice these at least
5,000 5,000
times before they become second nature
good luck
you